Giroud as you and your families come
together to celebrate Nowruz I want to
extend my best wishes to this new spring
and new year around the world
and here in the United States your
gathering at the naruse table to give
thanks for loved ones reflect on your
blessings and welcome all the
possibilities of a new season as I have
every year as president I want to take
this opportunity to speak directly to
the people and leaders of Iran since
taking office I've offered the Iranian
government an opportunity if it meets
its international obligations then there
could be a new relationship between our
two countries and Iran could begin to
return to its rightful place among the
community of nations I have no illusions
about the difficulty of overcoming
decades of mistrust it will take a
serious and sustained effort to resolve
the many differences between Iran and
the United States this includes the
world's serious and growing concerns
about Iran's nuclear program which
threatens peace and security in the
region and beyond Iran's leaders say
that their nuclear program is for
medical research and electricity to date
however they have been unable to
convince the international community
that their nuclear activities are solely
for peaceful purposes that's why the
world is united in its resolve to
address this issue and why Iran is now
so isolated the people of Iran have paid
high and unnecessary price because of
your leaders unwillingness to address
this issue as I've said all along the
United States prefers to resolve this
matter peacefully diplomatically indeed
if as Iran's leaders say their nuclear
program is for peaceful purposes then
there is a basis for a practical
solution it's a solution that would give
around access to peaceful nuclear energy
while resolving once and for all the
serious questions that the world has
about the true nature of the Iranian
nuclear program the United States
alongside the rest of the international
community is ready to reach such a
solution now is the time for the Iranian
government to take immediate and
meaningful steps to reduce tensions and
work toward an enduring long-term
settlement of the nuclear issue
finding a solution will be no easy task
but if we can the Iranian people will
begin to see the benefits of greater
trade and ties with other nations
including the United States whereas if
the Iranian government continues down
its current path it will only further
isolate Iran this is the choice now
before Iran's leaders
I hope they choose a better path for the
sake of the Iranian people and for the
sake of the world because there's no
good reason for Iranians to be denied
the opportunities enjoyed by people in
other countries just as Iran ian's
deserve the same freedoms and rights as
people everywhere Iran's isolation isn't
good for the world either just as your
forebears enriched the Arts and Sciences
throughout history all nations would
benefit from the talents and creativity
of the Iranian people especially your
young people every day that you are cut
off from us is a day we're not working
together building together innovating
together and building a future of peace
and prosperity that is at the heart of
this holiday as you gather with family
and friends this Nowruz many of you will
turn to the poet Hafez who wrote plant
the tree of friendship that bears the
fruit of fulfillment approved the
sapling of enmity that bears endless
suffering as a new spring begins I
remain hopeful that our two countries
can move beyond tension now we'll
continue to work toward a new day
between our nation's that bears the
fruit of friendship and peace thank you
and a - Oh mom Oh Barack